# Aerial_vehicles_detection_and_classification
This project is for aerial vehicles detetction and classification using computer vision and machine learning. First of all, YOLO v8 nano is used for the detetcion of the aerial vehicles. Usually YOLO can detect more than 90 classes of common objects, so we add an if statement for just detecting aero planes. After detetcting it the frame will be cropped at the bounding box coordinates and the cropped image of the aerial vehicle will be sent to 3 models for classification. These models are RESNET18, VGG16, and finally a custom made CNN with 3 convolutional blocks. After classifiying the aerial vehicle using the 3 models into one of the following classes: airplanes, drones, helicopters, fighter jets, and UAVS, the output class of each model will be fed into the voting system. From its name, this system do voting between the 3 outputs, and in case of ties it gives the output of RESNET 18 since it is the most accurate.
The models were trained on a dataset containg 100 image for each class. The attached notebooks (loss vs epochs generation file): vgggraph, cnngraph, and resnet graph are for plotting validation and training losses versus number of epochs to chose the best number. After chosing the best number the models are trained using the following notebooks (training): RESNET18_aerial_classif, AerialvehicleclassificationCNN, and aerial_vgg16 using the optimal number of epochs. After using these notebooks for training the weights files are downloaded and added to pycharm to make the prediction functions that take images as inputs and gives the predicted class as outputs. After making the functions (functions) in classification10ep, classificationvgg16, and CustomCNN2files, they were imported in the main file with yolo in yolo_aerial.
We tested the model on 50 unseen images (10 image to each class) and we got the confusion matrix: final_prediction_confusion_matrix.png and sample outputs are preseneted (sample 1 and 2 we got 96% accuracy and the average time took for classification is 1.66 seconds.(Results file)
The required packages are in the requirmenets.txt file.
So basically to use the project you have to download the requirements, select the best number of epochs using the graph notebooks, train the moedls on the data using training notebooks and download the weights. Use the functions for prediction for each model with the voting system in the main code integrated with yolo (yolo_aerial)
For reproducing the confusion matrix the confusion_final file can be used (path file must be changed in every folder)
